We saw how a community
in a graph can evolve.
To track the nature of evolution,
we need to measure how
the community changes over time.
So here are three cases.
One, two and three of a community
changing between two observation points.
The goal is to figure out whether these
are normal fluctuations in the network or
are more drastic changes occurring.
Look at them for a second.
Just visually, the first case
seems to show just minor changes.
Whereas case two shows a merger,
and case three shows a split.
Now, to come up with a quantitative
measure of change over time, we need to
take two observations from two consecutive
time points and fuse the graph.
If you do it for case one,
you'll find one new node,
one living node, and
the rest will come on over time.
For case two, you will see
that two previous communities,
colored differently, are internally
connected the same way as before.
But some members of the two communities
have created new crosslinks.
Now can you tell me what
you observe in case three?
Well I see one join node, color purple.
Apart from it, there are just two
edges connecting the two groups.
Now with these observations,
we can now compute the autocorrelation
between the graphs across time t and
t plus 1.
This is just a measure of
the number of common nodes
divided by the number of
nodes in the combined graph.
If the community does not change at all,
this number is 1.
If a community has only a few connection,
the number is lower.
After computing autocorrelation
over every pair of time steps,
we can then compute stationarity,
which measures the overall change in
the autocorrelation over a period of time.
So if we measure over 100 time steps,
we will add the 99 correlation values
from the steps and then divide it by 99.
This will tell us what fraction
of members remain unchanged
on an average over these 100 time steps.
Therefore, the 1 minus zeta tells
us the average ratio of members
that are changed in a time step.
Let's take three cases.
In the first plot,
the size of the graph is small and
nothing much is happening here.
A note occasionally joins or leaves,
keeping the stationarity pretty flat.
In the second case, the graph is small,
but there are a lot of changes, especially
at time step seven a whole bunch of purple
nodes have joined and then they went away.
The size of the graph
clearly reflects this
with a purple spike that you see
on the size versus the time graph.
This spike on the time series
by the way is called a burst.
The third plot shows a large graph
with many nodes joining and leaving.
The stationarity of this graph will be
quite low given the abrupt changes we
observe over time.